Hey, so in
this video we're going to go from the abstract to the concrete, and we're going to install the Unity
Test Tools themselves. So before we start a word of advice! If
you're on Unity 5.3 or higher, then take note of Martin's
fantastically useful discussion here, which I'm showing on the screen. There's also a
link available for you at http://bit.ly/testadvice
and that will tell you
what you need to do if you're in Unity 5.3 or higher.
We're going to find out what Unity Test Tools are, how to find
and install them, and then, we're going to be setting up your first failing
test. So how do you find the Unity Test Tools? Well the one way is you click this link,
in the course slides, or you go to the Unity Assets Store on the web and
search for Unity Test Tools. Or, and this is the way I'm going to do it, you go
into Unity itself, into this search box here in the Project tab, and type
Unity Test Tools. Now that's not going to do much because you're probably
haven't got an asset called Unity Test Tools, but if you click the Assets Store button here,
ah! You'll get a load of other stuffs but importantly you get
that, Unity Test Tools. So the easiest way to get that in here
is to just click Import Package. Why not do that?!
And there it goes, it's downloading! Now you could click this short link here
and that would just take you straight back, probably to exactly the same page it does,
exactly the same page as I took you to. So there are lots of way of skinning it.
So what is Unity Test Tools, what is it and what does it install? Well let's
just look at this package for a minute, it installs a load of different things.
ah um, Wow, quite heavy weight! Do you need it all?!
Not really. Does it matter if you install it all? Not really.
We don't want to be in a position where we're deciding right now, so
you've got some examples, lots of example assertations which
we'll discover later. You've got some documentation, a link
to the documentation on the web, something about the licensing, some common
components, including some icons and various other things. Some example
tests, which is quite handy. Some frameworks for integration in UnitTesting.
Now, Unit Testing is testing, basically, a single class like this score
master. IntegrationTesting is a higher level set of testing, that may test,
for instance, that your whole game works properly. We're going to be dealing with Unit
Testing here. So anyway, just import the whole lot, it's the bottom line, but I
always like to have a little nosey around a package, before I do.
So this is going to import into our assets in
your project,
and it's going to all go under something called Unity Test Tools
here. There it is! And you have a few things, you could look at the
license. You could look at the documentation
URL, you could look at the changelog, etc.
So if it's install properly and you have enough screen resolution, I would
expect to see yes. When you save, you expect to see Unity Test Tools in your
menus up here. If you still don't see them, I want to thank Daryl Kempthorne
for his advice here. He's posted in the forums to say he had a little
bit of problems and that he discovered that he needed to make sure that
the code compiled without errors, before his menu would appear. So
if you are having problems, then just make sure that you can build all of your
current scripts without errors, and once that's happening, hopefully Unity
Test Tools will appear. As a final resort just restart Unity,
and I think that you should be up and running. So thanks very much Daryl!
Just goes to show that your feedback gets integrated back into the course, everybody!
So that's awesome! You now have the basics
of what you need to get your testing working. So how are we going to actually run our test?
Well let's firstly get up the Unit Test Runner! So click on
Unity Test Tools, Unity Test Runner there for me.
And that will bring up a floating window somewhere on one of your monitors, which you
want to grab hold of and probably put next to the Inspector. You probably don't need
it at the same time as the Inspector. So if you look, it's already got
a whole bunch of tests in here, and we can actually just click run all and see what happens.
Now, this is a hierarchical list, so it's saying that cross just
means that something in Bowlmaster test, Bowlmaster failed. This cross
means something in the UnityTest failed. This cross means something in SampleTests failed,
but you get the idea. All the parameterized tests and range tests have worked,
the slowness test didn't, etc. So we've not going to worry about any of these
tests. These aren't our tests and they're far too complicated to be worrying about. But the basic idea
is, you can run all your tests at any point, and it'll tell you all the ones that are passing,
all the ones that are failing, and if you give yourself a bit more room on your Unit Tests
window, you'll see a few other things. You can filter out
tests that haven't been run and tests that are ignored
and tests that have failed and tests that have passed.
You can also filter a different way. You can show everything, you can show Failing Tests
only or not show Failing Tests or whatever you like.
Alright, so there's a few options there. Another option, which I think is probably worth doing
straight from the beginning, is click this little tiny drop-down at the top-right of Unit Tests
for me, and then, click Run on Recompile,
because we're going to be running very simple tests. We can do it
every single time we recompile, so you want to make sure there's a tick on Run on Recompile. It's
just going to save us wearing our fingers clicking run all later on.
So before we nuke these standard tests, we might as well learn
from them.So, if you go into, We need to find these
tests that it's running and see how even write a test. Where is it? We'll have
a look around these folders, that it's given you, and see what you can find.
Assertations Examples, sample tests, Examples,
Unit Testing Examples. So this is where I think you want to be, and in
Examples, Unit Test Examples, and it's in a folder called Editor.
I'll explain in a bit why it needs to be in a folder called Editor.
But what we want is, we want this code here that
tells us that we are using
at least the Unitytesting, the NUnit, Framework. We're going to have to
annotate like this, namespace UnityTest, and we
possibly, or at least we're going to need the [TestFixture] bit if nothing else.
So what I'd think would make a lot of sense to do here, would be to copy
perhaps all of that, the first 18 lines of SampleTest.cs.
Just copy them. OK,
and then let's start writing our actual own test. Now they need to be in a
folder called Editor, so create yourself a folder called Editor.
The reason they need to be in a folder that's called Editor is because they rely, because the tests happen
in the Editor, and therefore they need access to things that only the Editor
has access to, so any scripts that are in Editor are Editor scripts.
And then, make yourself a C# script called
ScoreMasterTest.
So we've got a script called ScoreMasterTest, in the Editor folder,
and let's edit that script.
Now, just nuke everything that's in it and start afresh, paste in what we copied
from the SampleTests. Now we don't
need the System.Threading, so take that out, we're not dealing with multithreading. We'll
leave in System and Collections.Generic, they're very useful. We need the NUnit.Framework,
that is the Unit Testing Framework, and we need the UnityEngine. We don't need to
declare a new namespace, that's more complicated than we need, so take that out,
and then, I'm going to re-indent my code back to the start.
OK we're nearly there. We don't need a Category, so you can take out the Category
integration, annotation, and rather than an
internal class, which we don't understand, just call it a public class.
And I'm going to call it... What shall we call it? ScoreTest.
Keep it nice and short. OK.
So we have a public class ScoreTest there,
and that is going to be full of tests. We don't need
categories. So you want to end up with some code, something like this!
And we won't even have the first test yet, so this first test just gives
you an example of a test but let's not even bother. All you
actually need is this, OK. This is the outline of
your testing system. It uses System, System.Collection.Generic,
NUnit.Framework, UnityEngine. We annotate a
new class called as a test [TestFixture]
like that. Fantastic! So that is the starting point, and we just
borrowed that code from [SampleTest] to get us off the ground.
OK, so it's time to write our first failing test.
So the way that you write your tests, once you have this basic framework
in place, which you can just see on my screen and basically copy it, is as
follows. It's public, just like other methods, void. I'm going to call it
FailingTest () and you just write it like any other method. Now, the difference
with tests is, we normally start with Assert, and if you go Assert dot you'll be able
to see what options we've got. There's quite a few things, we can assert the
equality of things or the inequality. We can assert things contained,
we can count, we can basically do a few things right.
Is an instance of, is true, yada yada yada.
So let's, that was the simplest possible failing test we could write?
Well it would be something like this. Assert.Equals
and it's going to compare two objects. Or should we use Equals or
AreEqual? Well AreEqual is the one you want to use. So Equals
you can use inside, but you always start with AreEqual OK, because that
is the actual test assertion. So Assert.AreEqual (1, 2);
Try that! That's going to be a failing test right,
because 1 doesn't equal 2. Let's have a look! Go over to Unity,
and now, down at the bottom-right look really carefully, you'll find
a little whirligig. Until that whirligig has gone away your test won't appaer.
Once the whirligig has gone away, if you're lucky, you'll be able to hit Run All,
and somewhere here you should see your new tests.
Now if you don't see them, then we need to get them working for you.
So if you don't see your test, then go back to your code and the
reason probably is that you need to annotate every single test with the word [Test].
If you don't have that [Test] annotation in front, and the [TestFixture]
annotation in front of ScoreTest then it won't work. Try again! Save
your script or even go as far as building it. Make sure there are no errors over here on your
script and go back to Unity. Now, once the little whirligig at the bottom-right has
gone away, then here you go look! We can collapse
down all the UnityTest stuff, but we have a FailingTest there! You see it?
Great! I actually would like to get UnityTest out of my face, but we'll do that
at the end. For now, let's make this test pass. We are in red, remember Red,
Green, Refactor! So the moment we have a failing test our job is to
make it pass. Now, in this case, we don't need to write any code to make it pass,
we just need to say AreEqual (1, 1).
[laughs] OK, we're going to change the test, in this case, just to show the effect.
When you come back over here, we have a whirligig, and provided that you have run
test on recompile, now the test passes! Awesome! You get the
idea, it's as simple as that! Kind of benign at this point or banal or
whatever the word is, but at least we have our framework working. Remember your Unit Tests
window might need to be a bit wider than I have mine. So let's ditch this
other UnityTests here. How are we going to do that? Well I would go down to
your UnityTestTools section, go into Examples,
UnityTestExamples, and Editor, and then, in your SampleTests
method you can select the whole lot, by just well selecting it all.
And then, one way to do it is Command or Control on a PC, and
the forward slash to comment it all out. Build that code, which should build to
nothing. When you come back into Unity the whirligig at the bottom-right will go around, and
then, all of those other tests will disappear and we just have simple Failing
Test. OK, it's not a Failing Test, so let's call
it a PassingTest. I'm going to use the Refactor Tool
and that's it, you have written your first test! Now there's no code
but we will be writing code, from the results of the tests, in the next
section. So build all your code, make sure its all saved,
and make sure all your tests are running and that your PassingTest works,
and then, save your project, save your scene, and celebrate! You have written your
first test, integrated your testing and development environment, etc. etc.
Little gotchas that might cause you problems, um
I'm not sure. I think this should just install absolutely fine, but if it doesn't for any reason, go back to the
Asset Store, try reinstalling it again. Make sure
that your test is in a folder called Editor.
Editor doesn't have to be at the root of your Assets, but it does have to be in a folder called
Editor and spelled exactly like that. If it's not, you'll get really weird errors.
Your test file can be called whatever you like. I recommend ScoreMaster
Test. You are going to need to import at least the
System, the NUnit.Framework, and the UnityEngine namespaces. I recommend
Collections.Generic as well. Your class ScoreTest will need to be
annotated with [TestFixture], and each of your tests will need to be annotated with [Test].
So that's the code you need to get it working, that must be in a folder called Editor,
and then, it should all be hunky-dory.
OK, hopefully you've got this far and I'll see you in the next video!